`ultralytics 8.0.142` add OpenVINO docs (#3624)
ultralytics/ultralytics: docs/integrations/openvino.md

---
comments: true
description: 'Export mode: Create a deployment-ready YOLOv8 model by converting it to OpenVINO format. Export to OpenVINO for up to 3x CPU speedup.'
keywords: ultralytics docs, YOLOv8, export YOLOv8, YOLOv8 model deployment, exporting YOLOv8, OpenVINO, OpenVINO format
---

<img width="1024" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26833433/252345644-0cf84257-4b34-404c-b7ce-eb73dfbcaff1.png">

> **Export mode** is used for exporting a YOLOv8 model to a format that can be used for deployment. In this guide, we specifically cover exporting to OpenVINO, which can provide up to 3x CPU speedup.

Author: @adrianboguszewski should we add some links to iGPU, dGPU, VPU for users to get more info?

> **Export mode** is used for exporting a YOLOv8 model to a format that can be used for deployment. In this guide, we specifically cover exporting to OpenVINO, which can provide up to 3x CPU speedup.

Reviewer: Sure, let's do it:
CPU: https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.0/openvino_docs_OV_UG_supported_plugins_CPU.html
GPUs: https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.0/openvino_docs_OV_UG_supported_plugins_GPU.html
VPU: https://docs.openvino.ai/2022.3/openvino_docs_OV_UG_supported_plugins_VPU.html

> **Export mode** is used for exporting a YOLOv8 model to a format that can be used for deployment. In this guide, we specifically cover exporting to OpenVINO, which can provide up to 3x CPU speedup.

Author: Ok perfect, I'll merged your commit and then add the URLs in a new commit.

OpenVINO, short for Open Visual Inference & Neural Network Optimization toolkit, is a comprehensive toolkit for quickly developing applications and solutions that emulate human vision. It includes optimized calls for CV standards, including OpenCV, OpenCL kernels, and more. OpenVINO is particularly useful for neural network inference and is compatible with many different types of pre-trained models from the open model zoo.

## Usage Examples

Export a YOLOv8n model to OpenVINO format.

!!! example ""

    === "Python"
    
        ```python
        from ultralytics import YOLO
        
        # Load a model
        model = YOLO('yolov8n.pt')  # load an official model
        model = YOLO('path/to/best.pt')  # load a custom trained
        
        # Export the model
        model.export(format='openvino')
        ```
    === "CLI"
    
        ```bash
        yolo export model=yolov8n.pt format=openvino  # export official model
        yolo export model=path/to/best.pt format=openvino  # export custom trained model

>         ```

Author: Yes I can add that!

>         ```

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/pull/3624/commits/f77ec28d0735008b6fe1e25bba5295c6150f2aba

>         ```

Reviewer: Nice!

3. **Model Optimizer**: OpenVINO provides a Model Optimizer that imports, converts, and optimizes models from popular deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow, Keras, ONNX, PyTorch, and Caffe.
4. **Pre-optimized Libraries**: OpenVINO includes optimized calls for computer vision (CV) standards, including OpenCV, OpenCL kernels, and more.
5. **Flexibility**: OpenVINO is compatible with pre-trained deep learning models and algorithms from the Open Model Zoo.
6. **Ease of Use**: The toolkit comes with more than 20 pre-trained models, and supports another 20+ public and custom models (including YOLOv8).

## OpenVINO Export Structure

When you export a model to OpenVINO format, it results in a directory containing the following:

1. **XML file**: Describes the network topology.
2. **BIN file**: Contains the weights and biases binary data.
3. **Mapping file**: Holds mapping of original model output tensors to OpenVINO tensor names.

You can use these files to run inference with the OpenVINO Inference Engine.

## Using OpenVINO Export in Deployment

> Once you have the OpenVINO files, you can use the OpenVINO Inference Engine to run the model. The Inference Engine provides a unified API to inference across all supported Intel hardware. It also provides advanced capabilities like load balancing across Intel hardware and asynchronous execution. For more information on using the Inference Engine, refer to the [Inference with OpenVINO Runtime Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.0/openvino_docs_OV_UG_OV_Runtime_User_Guide.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the OpenVINO files, you can use the OpenVINO Runtime to run the model. The Runtime provides a unified API to inference across all supported Intel hardware. It also provides advanced capabilities like load balancing across Intel hardware and asynchronous execution. For more information on running the inference, refer to the [Inference with OpenVINO Runtime Guide](https://docs.openvino.ai/2023.0/openvino_docs_OV_UG_OV_Runtime_User_Guide.html).
```

Remember, you'll need the XML and BIN files as well as any application-specific settings like input size, scale factor for normalization, etc., to correctly setup and use the model with the Inference Engine.

In your deployment application, you would typically do the following steps:

> 1. Load the model using the `InferenceEngine::Core::ReadNetwork` method.
> 2. Prepare the input and output blobs.
> 3. Run inference using `InferenceEngine::ExecutableNetwork::Infer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Initialize OpenVINO by creating `core = Core()`.
2. Load the model using the `core.read_model()` method.
3. Compile the model using the `core.compile_model()` function.
4. Prepare the input (image, text, audio, etc.).
5. Run inference using `compiled_model(input_data)`.
```

Author: Thanks for the fixes!

> For more detailed steps and code snippets, refer to the [OpenVINO documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more detailed steps and code snippets, refer to the [OpenVINO documentation](https://docs.openvino.ai/) or [API tutorial](https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino_notebooks/blob/main/notebooks/002-openvino-api/002-openvino-api.ipynb).
```

## OpenVINO YOLOv8 Benchmarks

> YOLOv8 benchmarks below were run by the Ultralytics team on 4 different model formats measuring speed and accuracy: PyTorch, TorchScript, ONNX and OpenVINO. Benchmarks were run on Intel Flex and Arc GPUs, and on Intel Xeon CPUs.

Reviewer: The benchmark for Intel Core CPU is missing

Author: @adrianboguszewski ah you're right! We are missing Intel Core. Could we get access to a 13th gen Intel Core machine on Intel Devcloud?

@AyushExel FYI

Reviewer: @AnishaUdayakumar, please check if Core is available there

Author: @adrianboguszewski @AnishaUdayakumar @raymondlo84 ok we have new benchmark values by @AyushExel on a 12th Gen Core i9 that I've added in https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/pull/3624/commits/d1e92de175ad8166ef94f4fba68478896233ef4f

If this looks good then we can resolve this final point and all review issues should be resolved!

Author: @adrianboguszewski @AnishaUdayakumar @raymondlo84 good news!! I went out and purchased a 13th Gen Core i7 machine, re-ran all benchmarks and updated the Docs (new table + plot) in https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/pull/3624/commits/b1fb8599f9016ef496c4fd09281066c3214a4cc2.

If this looks good we can resolve this last and final issue.

!!! note

    The benchmarking results below are for reference and might vary based on the exact hardware and software configuration of a system, as well as the current workload of the system at the time the benchmarks are run.

### Flex GPU

The Intel® Data Center GPU Flex Series is a versatile and robust solution designed for the intelligent visual cloud. This GPU supports a wide array of workloads including media streaming, cloud gaming, AI visual inference, and virtual desktop Infrastructure workloads. It stands out for its open architecture and built-in support for the AV1 encode, providing a standards-based software stack for high-performance, cross-architecture applications. The Flex Series GPU is optimized for density and quality, offering high reliability, availability, and scalability.

#### Flex GPU (FP32 Precision)

> Benchmark results for Flex GPU at FP32 precision with `half=False`:

Reviewer: We need to reveal the exact model of Flex, Arc and Xeon e.g. Arc A770, etc.

Author: @AyushExel do you know the Flex, Arc and Xeon models used?

Reviewer: @AnishaUdayakumar could help with this?

Reviewer 2: @AyushExel Can you confirm the instances used from this list?
https://scheduler.cloud.intel.com/#/systems

Reviewer: @glenn-jocher
Intel® Data Center GPU Flex 170
4th Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable CPU
I don't know your ARC, unfortunately.

Author: @AyushExel can you post your Arc model here?

Reviewer 3: Arc 770 limited edition

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/pull/3624/commits/c2fbed4b6993da382a5c090164c5ac0ddb4b3d96

| yolov8s | ONNX        | ✅      | 42.8      | 0.4472      | 43.53                  |
| yolov8s | OpenVINO    | ✅      | 21.6      | 0.4470      | 3.91                   |
| yolov8m | PyTorch     | ✅      | 49.7      | 0.5013      | 50.75                  |
| yolov8m | TorchScript | ✅      | 99.2      | 0.4999      | 47.90                  |
| yolov8m | ONNX        | ✅      | 99.0      | 0.4999      | 63.16                  |
| yolov8m | OpenVINO    | ✅      | 49.8      | 0.4997      | 7.11                   |
| yolov8l | PyTorch     | ✅      | 83.7      | 0.5293      | 78.55                  |
| yolov8l | TorchScript | ✅      | 167.2     | 0.5268      | 84.75                  |
| yolov8l | ONNX        | ✅      | 166.8     | 0.5268      | 87.71                  |
| yolov8l | OpenVINO    | ✅      | 83.8      | 0.5264      | 9.38                   |
| yolov8x | PyTorch     | ✅      | 130.5     | 0.5404      | 94.85                  |
| yolov8x | TorchScript | ✅      | 260.7     | 0.5371      | 113.11                 |
| yolov8x | ONNX        | ✅      | 260.4     | 0.5371      | 111.00                 |

> | yolov8x | OpenVINO    | ✅      | 130.6     | 0.5367      | 15.02                  |

Reviewer: As the results are almost the same, I'd go here with FP32 only.

Author: Ok got it. I'll remove Flex FP16.

Author: Done in https://github.com/ultralytics/ultralytics/pull/3624/commits/c694d451a357218ddb8bf2794c6625b34c08f919
